README.md, before:

OpenTopoMap
===========
OpenTopoMap is a topographic map style out of data from OpenStreetMap and SRTM. If you are interested in building your own OpenTopoMap, see the beginner's guides for [a tile server](mapnik/README.md).

### Mapnik
The main OpenTopoMap is a mapnik style. As of 2025-09-25 2 world wide instances exists that I know of : the "main one" is at https://opentopomap.org, and a secondary backup one, whose git repo and REAMDE is the one you are reading right now, visible at https://maps.refuges.info/?layers=0B0 gives you nice features like a search function or loading your gpx tracks. Futhermore, OpenTopoMap can be included into other applications. See https://opentopomap.org/about#verwendung for information on usage. The license of the online map is CC-BY-SA.

The online renderer is based on Mapnik. All necessary files are available to build your own OpenTopoMap server.


OpenTopoMap-Revived
===================
This instance, that I'd like to call OTM-R (for OpenTopoMap-Revived or OpenTopoMap-Raster) for the time beeing, aims to be identical to the main instance's map for now and act as a failover/clone/in place replacement. While hoping to get help or time someday to improve the map itself. 
Except for a few adjustements :
* Contours, hillshading and elevation color was composed and kindly provided by @Yvecai from https://www.opensnowmap.org and based on :
** ASTER GDEM is a product of METI and NASA
** SRTM 1 Arc-Second Global
** EU-DEM: Prroduced using Copernicus data and information funded by the European Union
** France – RGE ALTI® 5m © IGN
** Switzerland – Alti3D © swisstopo
** US & Canada – NED 1arcsec U.S. Geological Survey
** Austria – DHM 10m - CC-BY-4.0: Land Kärnten - data.gv.at
** Italy – Tinitaly 10m – CC BY 4.0 Tarquini S., I. Isola, M. Favalli, A. Battistini, G. Dotta (2023). Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia (INGV).
** Norway - DTM 10 Terrengmodell (UTM33) – CC BY 4.0 Kartverket
In the process hillshading was made brighter to help readability of contours alitude

* tiff files (color and shade) were merge into a single tiff with overviews to reduce the xml code and files
* the "contours" table in it's own database was move to the gis database
* the lowzooms tables were put back into the gis database
* the "parking" relevance to hiking trails was abandonned for now (so all parking icons are shown)
* saddle icons orientation was abondonned for now due to lack of quick disk drives

Commit message:

Update README to depict current usage policy of the maps.refuges.info server

README.md, after:

OpenTopoMap
===========
OpenTopoMap is a topographic map style out of data from OpenStreetMap and SRTM. If you are interested in building your own OpenTopoMap, see the beginner's guides for [a tile server](mapnik/README.md).

### Mapnik
The main OpenTopoMap is a mapnik style. As of 2025-09-25 2 world wide instances exists that I know of : the "main one" is at https://opentopomap.org, and a secondary backup one, whose git repo and REAMDE is the one you are reading right now, visible at https://maps.refuges.info/?layers=0B0 Futhermore, OpenTopoMap can be included into other applications (Well, as of now 2025-09-25, the server maps.refuges.info isn't powerfull enough, so please don't use it for high tile usage).
There isn't any written Usage policy right now, so in the mean time, use the same as the OpenStreetMap Tile usage policy :  https://operations.osmfoundation.org/policies/tiles/
+ be warn that in case of high usage slowing the server, I might bloc your accesses

The online renderer is based on Mapnik. All necessary files are available to build your own OpenTopoMap server.


OpenTopoMap-Revived
===================
This instance, that I'd like to call OTM-R (for OpenTopoMap-Revived or OpenTopoMap-Raster) for the time beeing, aims to be identical to the main instance's map for now and act as a failover/clone/in place replacement. While hoping to get help or time someday to improve the map itself. 
Except for a few adjustements :
* Contours, hillshading and elevation color was composed and kindly provided by @Yvecai from https://www.opensnowmap.org and based on :
** ASTER GDEM is a product of METI and NASA
** SRTM 1 Arc-Second Global
** EU-DEM: Prroduced using Copernicus data and information funded by the European Union
** France – RGE ALTI® 5m © IGN
** Switzerland – Alti3D © swisstopo
** US & Canada – NED 1arcsec U.S. Geological Survey
** Austria – DHM 10m - CC-BY-4.0: Land Kärnten - data.gv.at
** Italy – Tinitaly 10m – CC BY 4.0 Tarquini S., I. Isola, M. Favalli, A. Battistini, G. Dotta (2023). Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia (INGV).
** Norway - DTM 10 Terrengmodell (UTM33) – CC BY 4.0 Kartverket
In the process hillshading was made brighter to help readability of contours alitude

* tiff files (color and shade) were merge into a single tiff with overviews to reduce the xml code and files
* the "contours" table in it's own database was move to the gis database
* the lowzooms tables were put back into the gis database
* the "parking" relevance to hiking trails was abandonned for now (so all parking icons are shown)
* saddle icons orientation was abondonned for now due to lack of quick disk drives
